# Deploy hardware for MongoDB clusters using Terraform in AWS

Creates the following resources:
 
- VPC
- Subnets
- Internet Gateway
- Firewall rules
- VM instances for each component
- EBS volumes for data-bearing members
- S3 bucket for storing backups
- Ansible inventory
- SSH configuration

## Pre-requisites

1. Install [AWS CLI](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/getting-started-install.html)

2. Authenticate your shell session with your AWS account IAM credentials

    ```
    aws configure
    ``` 

3. Clone this repository on your machine and `cd` to it

    ```
    cd mongo_terraform_ansible/terraform/aws
    ```

4. Initialize Terraform 

    ```
    terraform init
    ```

## Quick guide

1. Review the configuration file and set the proper values. See the next section for details. 

    ```
    vi variables.tf
    ```

2. Run Terraform to create the resources

    ```
    terraform apply
    ``` 

3. Add the SSH configuration files generated by Terraform to your machine's configuration. For example: 

    ```
    cat ssh_config* >> ~/.ssh/config
    ```

    Modify the config as needed depending on your environment

4. (Optional) Copy the generated inventories to the [ansible](../../ansible) folder
    ```
    cp inventory* ../../ansible/
    ```

5. Look inside the [ansible](../../ansible) folder for instructions to complete the deployment of the MongoDB clusters/replica sets using Ansible

- The deployment of the resources required for a 2-shard cluster with Terraform takes around 1 minute

- You can run `terraform output -json` to see the access/secret keys generated for the S3 bucket created to store backups

## Connecting to the created instances

If you copied the generated configuration to ssh_config, no parameters should be needed. Example:

```
    ssh my-cluster-name-mongodb-cfg01
```

## Minimum variables to customize

Before deploying, make sure to edit `variables.tf`. These are the variables you have to care about for a quick deploy with mostly default values:

- prefix
 
    Prefix to be applied to the resources created, change it to avoid collisions with other users environments

- clusters

    By default we deploy 1 sharded cluster, but more can be added. Make sure to change the default name to avoid duplicates. The configuration for each cluster can be customized by adding the optional values listed.

- replsets

    If you want to provision any replica sets (non-sharded), set this variable. Make sure to change the default name to avoid duplicates.

- my_ssh_user

    Your own SSH user name. This is used to generate an SSH config file for you to login easily

- ssh_public_key_path

    Path to the SSH public key file on your machine to be added to authorized_keys on the created instances
