# Deploy hardware for MongoDB clusters using Terraform in Azure Cloud

Creates the following resources:
 
- Virtual Network (VNet)  
- Subnet  
- Network Security Group (firewall rules)  
- Virtual Machines (VMs) for each MongoDB component  
- Managed Disks for data-bearing members  
- Storage Account + Container for storing backups  
- Ansible inventory files  
- SSH configuration for easy access  

## Pre-requisites

1. Install Azure CLI
   [Install Azure CLI](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/install-azure-cli)

2. Login with Azure Account

   ```
   az login
   ```

3. Clone this repository on your machine and `cd` to it

    ```
    cd mongo_terraform_ansible/terraform/azure
    ```

4. Initialize Terraform 

    ```
    terraform init
    ```

## Quick guide

1. Review the configuration file and set the proper values. See the next section for details. 

    ```
    vi variables.tf
    ```

2. Run Terraform to create the resources

    ```
    terraform apply
    ``` 

3. Add the SSH configuration files generated by Terraform to your machine's configuration. For example: 

    ```
    cat ssh_config* >> ~/.ssh/config
    ```

    Modify the config as needed depending on your environment

4. (Optional) Copy the generated inventories to the [ansible](../../ansible) folder
    ```
    cp inventory* ../../ansible/
    ```

5. Look inside the [ansible](../../ansible) folder for instructions to complete the deployment of the MongoDB clusters/replica sets using Ansible

- The deployment of the resources required for a 2-shard cluster with Terraform takes around 1 minute

- You can run `terraform output -json` to see the access/secret keys generated for the Backup Storage bucket created to store backups

## Connecting to the created instances

If you copied the generated configuration to your ssh_config file, no parameters should be needed. Example:

```
    ssh my-cluster-name-mongodb-cfg01
```

## Minimum variables to customize

Before deploying, make sure to edit `variables.tf`. These are the variables you have to care about for a quick deploy with mostly default values:

- prefix
 
    Prefix to be applied to the resources created, change it to avoid collisions with other users environments

- clusters

    By default we deploy 1 sharded cluster, but more can be added. Make sure to change the default name to avoid duplicates. The configuration for each cluster can be customized by adding the optional values listed.

- replsets

    If you want to provision any replica sets (non-sharded), set this variable. Make sure to change the default name to avoid duplicates.

- ssh_users

    List of SSH usernames and path to their public key file on your machine to configure access to the created instances

- my_ssh_user

    Your own SSH user name. This is used to generate an SSH config file for you to login easily